#197 Mirror Tool 1.6.0 (#204)
Inbibo/adonisfx_docs: docs/maya/tools/mirror_tool.md

# Mirror Tool

The **AdonisFX Mirror Tool** is a feature designed to simplify and speed up the muscle setup process for digital characters within Maya. This tool efficiently transfers muscle configurations from one side of a character to the other, based on consistent naming conventions to distinguish between left and right sides. By automating this process, it significantly reduces the time and effort required to replicate complex muscle setups, enhancing efficiency and consistency.​

The tool replicates the following components:​

- **AdnMuscle deformers**, including their configurations, paintable maps, geometry targets, and connections to locators.​
- The three types of **AdonisFX locators** (i.e. AdnLocatorPosition, AdnLocatorDistance, and AdnLocatorRotation).
- The three types of **AdonisFX sensors** (i.e. AdnSensorPosition, AdnSensorDistance, and AdnSensorRotation).
- **AdnActivation nodes**, including their input and output connections.

> <figure markdown>

Reviewer: I would add a sub-section called "UI" where you show the screenshot and explain the widgets.

Then you have "How To Use" and "Limitations" which is great. I would probably create a section "Requirements" before "How To Use" to put there the list of requirements. Then, in How to use, you start with "Open the scene ..." and the first screenshot of biped mike.

The screenshot of the Node Editor is good for the requirements. So I guess you have to reorder them.

Author: Done.

  ![AdonisFX Mirror Tool](../images/mirror_tool.png) 
  <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: AdonisFX Mirror Tool UI. </figcaption>
</figure>

The Mirror Tool interface is designed to be simple and intuitive, it contains the following elements:

- **Mirror by**: This dropdown menu allows to specify whether the naming convention used for scene entities is based on a prefix or suffix. The selected option determines how the tool identifies corresponding elements on the opposite side.

- **Left**: This input field is used to define the prefix or suffix for the left side of the character (e.g., "L_" for left-sided elements).

- **Right**: This input field is used to define the prefix or suffix for the right side of the character (e.g., "R_" for right-sided elements).

> - **Accept**: Applies the mirroring process based on the provided settings and closes the interface.

Author: Yes, done.

- **Apply**: Applies the mirroring process without closing the interface.

- **Cancel**: Closes the interface without applying any changes.

## How To Use

In order to use the **Mirror Tool**, the rig must meet the following requirements to ensure a successful transfer of the muscle setup:

- **A completed setup on one side**: One side of the rig (either left or right) must be fully configured. This completed side will serve as the **source**, while the opposite side will be the **destination** for the mirrored setup.

> - **Consistent naming convention**: All objects involved in the mirroring process (including geometries, muscle deformers, locators, sensors, and activation nodes) must follow a naming convention based on prefixes or suffixes (see figure 3). This allows the tool to differentiate between left and right-side entities. Naming conventions can use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Consistent naming convention**: All objects involved in the mirroring process (including geometries, muscle deformers, locators, sensors, activation nodes and any other attachment nodes like rig joints) must follow a naming convention based on prefixes or suffixes (see Figure 3). This allows the tool to differentiate between left and right-side entities. Naming conventions can use:
```

Author: Right, I missed attachment joints, I will update the screenshot of the node graph showing also the joints with the right naming.

</figure>

5. Click *Yes* in the confirmation dialog to proceed with the mirroring.

Depending on the complexity of the rig, this process might take a few seconds to compute. If something goes wrong during the execution, an error dialog will be displayed informing about the problem to help with the troubleshooting.

<figure style="width:90%; margin-left:5%" markdown>
  ![Mirroring Execution Completed](../images/mirror_script_03.png)
  <figcaption><b>Figure 6</b>: Result of the execution: all AdnMuscle from the left side are replicated on the right side. Additionally, all the locators, sensors and activation nodes from the left side are created and connected on the right side.</figcaption>
</figure>

> [!NOTE]
> Depending on the need, the script can mirror only the muscles (selection from step 1), only the locators and sensors (selection from step 2), or everything at once (including both selections from step 1 and 2).

> [!NOTE]
> The mirroring process can also be executed via Python scripting. For more details, please refer to the [Mirror Script section](../scripts#mirror).

## Limitations

> - The naming convention does not allow to place the side identifier at the middle of the name (e.g. biceps_L_muscle).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The naming convention does not allow placing the side identifier at the middle of the name (e.g. biceps_L_muscle).
```

Author: Done.
